
this is my canvas, i post things on UX and brandinf here. 

Draft 2.25

PostmarketOS
or pmOS for short

Tools are one of the oldest and most distinctive human features

Branding:
Family Love and tool making are ancient, primordial, integral to humanity. 
A >-(commonality)<- B
Publicity abd branding should associate  these, emphasize this commonality in clever ways.

"You should use this tech, learn it, become more human (revive your deep human roots)(which have been somewhat lost in post-industrial world)"

love your family
be a toolmaker

Exercise is important- dont be sedentary
complex and amazing tool making an tool use is important for everyone too. --- dont be mentally sedentary.

goals: 
1.understand possible relations between users, the tool, their environment, and their needs.
2.understand how the relation between these elememts changes over time, many times as a result of tool use (how fluency in use transforms use, relation, and need)
3. how these user groups and their flow converge. What is their conversation within and between groups and what is the conversation between users and the non-using public,

To do:
1. make a diagram explaining a few possible paths of user 'deepening' of use. --=> Through an understanding these rabbit holes, and recognizing the importance of discovery in this product, we can prepare and help our users with these phases (define them) and consider in the design architecture of the system.
2. Explain in detail the relation between this community and the car collector and car modification comminities. there are also a lot of key differences.

   The key things to
 \---===determine===---/
    \ =\ _Are_ /= /
        
        
Sentiment of users:
?not as nostaligic (but nostalgia can and does exist)


Practical(essential)

who is your user  -- 
  current
  future
also who isnt your user
  to think about future users
  the social construct as seen from the  non-users
What do users want
interface between groups of users
  Ex: tech forums, tutorials, meetings, lessons
  New, more fun or interactive activities between levels of users
  Important: dont construct expertise as a hierarchy, see it as a deepening. Why? Community hierarchy centered on USE of tool, rather than it being an end-in-itself. This rids us of toxic elitism.
  
Multiple brand themes
--Elements of aesthetic
---Colors, 
----textures, 
----objects, 
----spaces,
----places, 
----ideas 
(sensory)

Fonts
-
Positioning (relative to other players)

User profiles
---interests
---attitudes
---resources
---needs

 Psychological factors of use and involvment
 discovery
 curiosity
 distinction
 interesting applications/uses
 useful applications/uses
 
Find commonalities between user profiles
Signalling with aesthetic
3aesthetic:
2Mood Boards
1Themes

Theme1
night (PMOS) am pm pmOS
operating in the shadows
to bring light to day
sun
abraxis/abrasax
Interesting esoteric -- fits with hacking anf linux -- appeal to curiosity -- edgy
Tagline perhaps a bit too dramatic
abraxis may be too 'woo woo'religous for mass appeal/further adoption, 

perhaps this identity would be good for endomarketimg (for internal devs)
also risks being very cliche / not future proof

Theme 2
Naturalistic  (see photos)
brown piles ob\f \\\ leaves
Pata de vaca tree with blue sky
primavera trees with blue sky and clouds
 
Vines 
 
 This communicates life ecosystem liberty
 
 Many branches of the same tree (hackabikity) user participation in porting 
 
 It can metaphircalically define our 'mission' to port lots of devices

 See fredy perlma  against levsisthsn to understand how integrstion with biosphere = liberty
 
 Also complexity
 
 Biological/ naturalists
 use old images of early naturalist studies  botanical morphology
  
 Lots of beautiful shapes in nature
 
 
 Theme 3
 primitive
 paleolithic
 variant: paleoastro/astropaleo brand

 promotional video: see this. script is in finished first draft.
 
  
 Theme 4
Aged Brutalism

 bare metal
 simplicity
 transparency
 ugly/brutalist
 Merge with nautical
 chicago lakefront
 seagulls rocks gray winter
 butterfly in the wind ovee the water
 silence
 Gravel road
 Chipped paint on signpos
 Rust
 Rusty gears'
Rusty tractor gearbox

 Theme 5
ancient sumerian cuniform
clay, sand, and limestone
enkidu: name projects according to mythos and/or indigenous eg: cahokia
The egyptian pyramids

 Theme 6
Buckminster fuller geometry
unlocking human potential

A mixture of them
 Chipped paint on signpost
 Plants in ugly dilapidated urban settings emerging green in a brutalist context
target user the global urban poor? 
[Photo of homeless feet]

Another mixture:
paleolithic man in modern times


Note on theme 5
If a brutalist theme or "aged-brutalism" / dilapidated theming is assumed then we can have more conventional aesthetic for front-facing (how do our non-targets view our market and how do our users know others (mostly non-users) are seeing users as a result of our user's association with the brand) and introductory media (includes potential future users. This can be layered on top of other layers of 'close to the metal' representations and organizations of content and functionality (design approaches).

Note on what brand is NOT
What it isn't: ubuntu is bright and trendy --like big name companies-- i suggest we counter this-- signals we are different


----
A few new tangents that dont fit in the first theme gradient, but could be the basis for further theme gradients.
What are those?

the people being targeted or who we would would like to attract (or are disposed to being attracted), have, within the group, a diversity of subtle differences in identity and necessity that can be expressed in two ways: functionality and design. 

Visual and brand design is the narrative that connects the tool with the user, with it's use, and the community of collective meaning that user and his tool use is embedded in.
User -problemXXXXX(|barrier|]- Necessity
User -tool->problem =solution>=> Fulfilment
\________using tools__________/
  \_____to solve problems____/
     \fulfiling necessities/
        is fulfilling, too.

The functionalities, or, better in our case, the *modes of participation* of a user can follow an arc. They get into pmOS for a host of reasons, and it can be a tool that expands according to their changing needs, habits of use, and their course and position along the practical learning trajectory. The arc is beginner, then to discovery and experimentation and on to specialization. With the Vertical axis (y?) being the number of possible modes and that people after manynyears of use become entrenched in a specific way if doing things.

The themes, and *especially* how they blend,  represent two things
1) layers of participation (deepening)
2) user-determined modes of use(widening)
In linux to widen you *must* deepen first. The process of widening, of customizing the tool (or customizing your use of it) according to your new necessity will deepen your knowledge and praxis of said device/tool. As one deepens and widens one's relationship with this tech, this brand, it is, whether we recognize it or not, is ALWAYS  accompanied by an aesthetic, or a narrative, that explains to us and to the world what in the fuck it is we are doing. The alegorical implications of the themes a were very carefully determined.

Deepening and widening as terminology to describe activities.

The psychology of the diehard linux user:

A) learns a technique for solving a problem
...in the process he/she...
B) learns about a lot of other things that can be used to solve other or perhaps harder problems. 
...understanding or prowess of the tool also brings pride, stimulating an emotional, ego-bound, connection with the tool.
C) After using the tech and techniquesn to solve a problem, and consequently feeling satisfied with his/herself and his/her tool, the propensity is heighten for spontaneously coming up with a lot of cool, fun, or interesting things to do with the tool. It's a natural and instinctive form of play that man does with tool due to this relation discussed in B, and is very healthy, as it also further improves his skill in using the tool.

motivations
(A)Satisfaction (of having solved a problem)
(B)Curiosity and Discovery
(C)Innovation, Creativity, Art (
these motivations reinforce each other

----
A few new tangents that dont fit in the first theme gradient, but could be the basis for further theme gradients.
What are those?
Sao Paulo graffiti is the connection??
Buckminster fuller geometry
unlocking human potential
Saopaulp grafiti
sunpaulo

Theme 7 (from my 4 year old son)
Cyclone
ciclone
seguindo o meu filho, um ciclone é um projeto para fazer outros projetos
seguindo ele eu preciso fazer esse projeto.

Classic/antique/collector car is a wonderful aesthetic and cousin subculture. Associstions a bridge can be made.

People admire car collector hobbyists, they understsnd them
And what about us?

THEME 5
COLORFUL GRAFFITI ARARA
complexity beauty sophistication
freedom to deface because it's consjderwd anpositive improve,ent

Theme6
Bicycle
Most efficient land animal is man
man on bike even moreso
 simple in design complex in use (like a bo staff or a sword)
 too narrow and doesn't necessarily fit with rest of project.


 Theme 7
 broken triangular shards of green glass in a hand. highlights on contour and a horizontal transversal highlight that shifts as hand is slightly tilted foward and backward.


Car culture reduced the complexity of human interaction in cities by reducing frequency of physical proximity, thereby reducing probability of physical, hence 'meaningful,' contact

Smart phones have reduced the layer of attention size that interfaces with the 'real world'

by meaningful i mean significant or personally and socially relevant, with social also agregating what many have in the past called 'material' or that which interfaces and is relevant to life-system ecology and physical limits on scale and causality.

Look at impacts of 'computing culture' with respect to...?
